---
layout: default
title: 2023-01-19 TOC Meeting Record
parent: 2023
grand_parent: Meeting Minutes
---
![Antitrust Policy Notice](../images/antitrust-policy-notice.png "Antitrust Policy Notice")
![All are Welcome in the Hyperledger Community](../images/all-are-welcome.png "All are Welcome in the Hyperledger Community")

Hyperledger is committed to creating a safe and welcoming community for all. For more information please visit our Code of Conduct: [Hyperledger Code of Conduct](https://toc.hyperledger.org/governing-documents/code-of-conduct.html)

## Announcements

* The [Hyperledger /dev/weekly developer newsletter](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=39618905) goes out each Friday to hundreds of Hyperledger developers. It is a collaborative effort. If you have a project release, pull request, community event, and/or relevant article you would like highlighted next week, please [leave a comment for consideration on the upcoming newsletter wiki page](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/DR/2023)


## Quarterly reports


- [2023 Q1 Hyperledger Fabric](2023-Q1-Hyperledger-Fabric_80775644.html)
- [2023 Q1 Hyperledger Cacti](2023-Q1-Hyperledger-Cacti_80775657.html)
- 2022 Q4 Hyperledger Ursa (due 01 Dec 2022)
- Please review any [outstanding quarterly reports](https://github.com/hyperledger/toc/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Aquarterly-report+user-review-requested%3A%40me).

## Upcoming reports

- 2023 Q1 Hyperledger Sawtooth (due 26 Jan 2023)
- [2023 TOC Project Update Calendar](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/TSC/2023+TOC+Project+Update+Calendar)

## Presentation

Open Source Security Foundation Overview -
[Arnaud J Le Hors](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/display/~lehors)
(slides): [OpenSSF Hyperledger 20230119.pdf](https://github.com/hyperledger/toc-docs/blob/main/2023/01/19/2023%2B01%2B19%2BTOC%2BMeeting%2BRecord-attachment-OpenSSF%2BHyperledger%2B20230119.pdf)

## Discussion

- [Move Project Reports to Github](https://github.com/hyperledger/toc/issues/43)
- Proposed Task Forces based on our goals discussion last week. Confirm
  chairs.
  - Best Practices for Automated Pipelines
  - Project Best Practices
  - Badging/Lifecycle
  - Security - Arun S M?
  - Others?


## Project Proposals (from hyperledger/hyperledger-hips)

  - [HLF Operator](https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger-hip/pull/8) opened Nov 14, 2022 by [dviejokfs](https://github.com/dviejokfs")

## Backlog (from hyperledger/toc)

  - [Update to the security process for Hyperledger](https://github.com/hyperledger/toc/issues/20) opened Nov 11, 2021 by [Ry Jones](https://github.com/ryjones)

## Recordings

* [https://youtu.be/0AFFIDKFNvc](https://youtu.be/0AFFIDKFNvc)

## Attended by:

* [x] Arnaud J Le Hors
* [x] Arun S M
* [x] Bobbi Muscara
* [x] David Enyeart
* [ ] ~~Jim Zhang~~
* [x] Marcus Brandenburger
* [x] Peter Somogyvari
* [x] Ramakrishna V
* [x] Stephen Curran
* [x] Timo Glastra
* [x] Tracy Kuhrt
