---
layout: default
title: 2016 03 10 TSC Minutes
parent: 2016
grand_parent: Meeting Minutes
---
# 2016 03 10 TSC Minutes

**Hyperledger Project**

Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting

March 10, 2016 (7:00am - 8:30am PT) via GoToMeeting

**TSC Members**

<div class="table-wrap">

<table class="wrapped confluenceTable">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Emmanuel Viale</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Accenture</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Stan Liberman</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>CME Group</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Tamas Blummer</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>DAH</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Stefan Teis</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Deutsche Boerse Group</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Pardha Vishnumolakala</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>DTCC</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Hart Montgomery</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Fujitsu</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Satoshi Oshima</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Hitachi</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Chris Ferris</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>IBM</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Mic Bowman</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Intel</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>David Voell</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>J.P. Morgan</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Richard G. Brown</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>R3</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

</div>

  

**Resources:**

- Github:
  <a href="http://www.github.com/hyperledger" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>www.github.com/hyperledger</span></a>
- Wiki: <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki</a>
- IRC: \#hyperledger on
  <a href="http://freenode.net" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">freenode.net</a> (has Meetbot)
- Public lists:
  <a href="http://lists.hyperledger.org" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">lists.hyperledger.org</a>
- Slack: <a href="http://hyperledgerproject.slack.com/signup"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">hyperledgerproject.slack.com/signup</a> (email
  <a href="mailto:tbenzies@linuxfoundation.org" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>tbenzies@linuxfoundation.org</span></a> for
  access)
- Information on the TSC Members can be found at
  <a href="https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc</span></a>

**Agenda**

- Technical F2F (3/22 - 3/25), Brooklyn, NY (Todd Benzies)
- Requirements Committee update (Patrick Holmes)
- White Paper (Chris Ferris)
- Progress on DAH/IBM experiment (Chris Ferris)
- Code of Conduct (Arnaud Le Hors)
- Project Proposal Template (Vipin Bharathan)
- Project Lifecycle (Chris Ferris & Arnaud Le Hors)

**Technical F2F**

- (3/22 - 3/25), Brooklyn, NY

- Reminder to register
  <a href="https://www.regonline.com/hyperledgertechf2f"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://www.regonline.com/hyperledgertechf2f</span></a>

- 37 registered (capacity: 100)

- Agenda planning

  - CF: Building out set of stories that we need to be driving. Hope
    that Tamas and team will be doing the same. Session for requirements
    and use cases. Session for project lifecycle and proposals. Session
    for code of conduct.

  - Q: Can anyone bring use cases?

    - Yes. This will come through the WG run by Patrick to build
      consensus... and then this would go to TSC.

  - Q: Use cases for TSC in general, or for the Hackathon?

    - In general -- requirements and use cases for what hyperledger is
      doing in general.

  

**Requirements Committee**

- Current volunteers (Tamas, Benedickt, Igor, Primrose, Judy, Stefan,
  Emmanuel, Nikilesh)
- Email <a href="mailto:patrick.holmes@intel.com" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">patrick.holmes@intel.com</a> if you want to participate
- Started collecting use cases, will create a repository for these
- Need to determine the scope of use cases (can be part of the Technical
  F2F)

  

**White Paper**

- **<a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/pull/8"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/pull/8</span></a>**


- Please edit/comment
- Dave Voell has taken the action to be Editor

**DAH/IBM**

- IBM put code into incubator repo, DAH to push code soon.
- <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger-incubator" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">https://github.com/hyperledger-incubator</a>
- CF: from IBM perspective, working on some of the aspects of the
  proposal.
- Binh: Look at OBC repo at this point, number of issues created to
  work toward that and prepare for F2F. Specifically, looking at
  ability to integrate an interpreter. Picked up interpreter from
  Bitcoin. Tried to call that from chain code. Prototype ability to
  pass in a Bitcoin transaction through OBC system, to the interpreter,
  to be able to turn around and update the transaction log. Hope to
  show at F2F.
- Shaul: done a lot of work on binding to bitcoin interpreter. Feel
  free to ping DAH on any help needed.
- Binh: Couldnâ€™t find DAH interpreter, so went with Bitcoin
  interpreter. Though, this would be an easy switch if needed. Shaul
  can point to this.

  

**Code of Conduct**

- <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZjSBGk8GAUVrupECzidQE9rhZwJLgaY0TRQLAAYcmzI/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Option 1</span></a> (CF)
- <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uwT2x4yTmPn3xrRuqXZ4ZTcuIiZvF3N8VOnqFIO4Q-0/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Option 2</span></a> (W3C)

<!-- -->

- Loose consensus: both are good, slight preference for W3C version.

- Q: for those that have W3C preference, does that also include the
  glossary?

  - Yes, don't think you can separate the two.

- **ACTION:** Technical Community to provide feedback via survey

  - <a href="https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/7FYFBGB" class="external-link"
    rel="nofollow"><span>https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/7FYFBGB</span></a>

**Project Proposal Template**


- [Proposal Template for a Hyperledger Improvement Project (HIP).pdf](https://github.com/hyperledger/toc-docs/blob/main/2016/03/10/2016%2B03%2B10%2BTSC%2BMinutes-attachment-Proposal%2BTemplate%2Bfor%2Ba%2BHyperledger%2BImprovement%2BProject%2B%2528HIP%2529.pdf)

- Vipin: Reworked document from previous suggestions suggestions (i.e.
  licensing and trademark has been added). Tried to make it function
  more as a template, with the sections in bold and also removed any
  strong language about using this particular format to handle the
  solutions. If the solution does not require this certain section to
  be handled, left it open in that sense. Goes through list of various
  possible sections you should address in solution.

- Q: what is definition of a team champion?

  - The person who is driving project proposal (will update to make
    plural so that multiple people can drive the proposal for
    continuity, in case someone were to leave the project)
  - Comment: need to know who the initial maintainers are, don't
    necessarily need "project champion"

- Q: Can it include a bullet about how it will be used?

  - Vipin: "how to" was meant to address that. But, could include what
    you just said as well.

- Note: Once approved, does not preclude changes down road.

- CF: this is getting very close. Please review doc and add any
  comments or suggestions. Try to close on this next week.

  

**Project Lifecycle Proposal**

- [Proposed Hyperledger Project Lifecycle.pdf](https://github.com/hyperledger/toc-docs/blob/main/2016/03/10/2016%2B03%2B10%2BTSC%2BMinutes-attachment-Proposed%2BHyperledger%2BProject%2BLifecycle.pdf)

- Q: How much do we talk about transition between difference phases?

  - Proposal to incubation is detailed, but not so detailed beyond that.

- Please take a close look and provide comments and feedback

## Attachments:

[Proposal Template for a Hyperledger Improvement Project (HIP).pdf](https://github.com/hyperledger/toc-docs/blob/main/2016/03/10/2016%2B03%2B10%2BTSC%2BMinutes-attachment-Proposal%2BTemplate%2Bfor%2Ba%2BHyperledger%2BImprovement%2BProject%2B%2528HIP%2529.pdf)
[Proposed Hyperledger Project Lifecycle.pdf](https://github.com/hyperledger/toc-docs/blob/main/2016/03/10/2016%2B03%2B10%2BTSC%2BMinutes-attachment-Proposed%2BHyperledger%2BProject%2BLifecycle.pdf)
[Hyperledger Project - Technical Steering Committee (TSC)](https://youtu.be/bkCwUY3lrm0)
