---
layout: default
title: 2016 05 26 TSC Minutes
parent: 2016
grand_parent: Meeting Minutes
---
# 2016 05 26 TSC Minutes

**Hyperledger Project**

Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting

May 26, 2016 (7:00am - 8:30am PT)

via GoToMeeting

**TSC Members**

<div class="table-wrap">

<table class="wrapped confluenceTable">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Emmanuel Viale</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Accenture</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Stan Liberman</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>CME Group</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Tamas Blummer</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Digital Asset</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Stefan Teis</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Deutsche Boerse Group</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Pardha Vishnumolakala</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>DTCC</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Hart Montgomery</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Fujitsu</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Satoshi Oshima</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Hitachi</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Chris Ferris</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>IBM</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Mic Bowman</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Intel</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>David Voell</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>J.P. Morgan</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Richard G. Brown</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>R3</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


  
  

**Resources:**

- Github: 
  <a href="http://www.github.com/hyperledger" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>www.github.com/hyperledger</span></a>
- Wiki:  <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki</a>
- IRC:  \#hyperledger on
  <a href="http://freenode.net" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">freenode.net</a> (has Meetbot)
- Public lists: 
  <a href="http://lists.hyperledger.org" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">lists.hyperledger.org</a>
- Slack:  <a href="https://slack.hyperledger.org/" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://slack.hyperledger.org/</span></a>
  (self-generated invites)
- Information on the TSC Members can be found at
  <a href="https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc</span></a>
- Meetings:  <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar</a>

  

**Agenda**

- Action item review
- HIP:  IBM-DTCC Joint Proposal for Java Chaincode Support
- WG updates

  

**Action Item Review**

- TSC representation policy draft (Chris Ferris)

- - Done via TSC list.

- Whitepaper review (Dave Voell)

- - To be covered in WG updates.

- June (virtual) Hackathon (Todd Benzies)

- - Last day to respond
    <a href="http://doodle.com/poll/tzmnqwe279sfzwa2" class="external-link"
    rel="nofollow"><span>http://doodle.com/poll/tzmnqwe279sfzwa2</span></a>

  - What platform(s) do the Community want to leverage?

  - - Etherpad is used in some projects.
    - Brian B:  part of value is speed and responsiveness on existing
      tools.  People are there and focused, not competing for attention.
      Value is in quick responses leveraging real-time channel like
      Slack.  Make sure people are present and responding quickly.
      Etherpad or Google docs are great.
    - CF:  If it is code, using Screenhero would be a good alternative.
    - Christopher A:  done a few vHackathons; main thing is periodic
      check-in times (every 8 hours).  Also, does need a good beginning
      and end.

- July Hackathon (west coast) (Todd Benzies)

- - Last day to respond
    <a href="http://doodle.com/poll/qumqqpsprsi9xzia" class="external-link"
    rel="nofollow"><span>http://doodle.com/poll/qumqqpsprsi9xzia</span></a>

- Exit criteria summary (Chris Ferris)

- - Still pending.

  

**TSC Representation Policy**

- <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/11KCqr40-zjMB0KqQCnfJvFtem2_A_QkOznw5c9dseZI/edit"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://docs.google.com/document/d/11KCqr40-zjMB0KqQCnfJvFtem2_A_QkOznw5c9dseZI/edit</span></a>

- - VOTE:  Passed unanimously.

  

**HIP:  IBM-DTCC Joint Proposal for Java Chaincode Support (Murali,
Pardha, Sheehan, Muralidharan)**

- Proposal <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZBRO0X6OAQXKaq3_SjIgZ6uQ_eSFyglex-h2eQ8-H_o/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>here</span></a> as
  presented by Murali Krishna (DTCC)

- Comments/questions

- - RGB:  Do you envisage people would take core Fabric code for one set
    of use cases and deploy a version with Java chaincode, and for a
    different independent set of use cases (and network), may use Go or
    some other language.  Or do you envisage a network that runs both
    chaincodes which means anyone participating in that network would
    need to be able to validate both types of transactions? Is this a
    choice at the network level, or an additional thing that networks
    would support?

  - - Murali -- For same network should be allowed to specify smart
      contract in Go and Java.
    - Sheehan -- Could turn one of both on.  Network decision.

  - Tamas: envision further API for Java edit functionality compared to
    what is in Go chaincode?  Or literal translation of interfaces in
    existence.

  - - Murali -- WIll support same interfaces from Java side.
    - Tamas -- basically same chaincode APIs as in G.

  - What has been accomplished or what is working?

  - - Sheehan -- IBM wrote an initial experiment of Java chaincode
      working and running...however, now it is out of sync with current
      fabric.  Would contribute that code and a branch (may not be fully
      working state as it catches up with current Fabric APIs, and then
      add new APIs from last month or two)

  - Fabric allows mixed types?

  - - In same network should be able to have Go and Java smart contracts
      running at same time.

  - What about verifying code… what version of Java?

  - - Mic:  the whole concept of versioning is a general challenge. 
      Would be nice to have some insights come out of your project to
      understand general problem and how to architect for it. 
      Interesting problem to look at and this is a nice area to do so.
      Version of Java you have will have to evolve over time.  Not just
      single shot versioning, it is a progression of versions over time.
    - Richard R3:  Good thing to explore, have been working on this with
      Corda.  Versioning, sandboxing, whitelist of deterministic
      classes.

  - Mic:  on resources -- expect this to last 1-1.5 months, this is with
    single specific version, correct?  This seems optimistic, unless it
    is very constrained.

  - - Murali -- estimates based on joint feedback between DTCC/IBM. 
      This would be a first version equivalent to Go that is running on
      same network.  Once stable, would expand on it.

  - CF:  Agreement to support this sub-project proposal to be
    incorporated into HLP Fabric?

  - - VOTE:  Passed unanimously.

  

**WG Updates**

- <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Requirements-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Requirements WG</span></a>
  (Oleg Abdrashitov)

- - Working on financial use cases… swaps, interest rate, etc.
  - Different trading scenarios (OTC, exchanges, etc.)
  - Need help from different members to validate use cases
  - DIscussion on how much of implementation of workflow detail to
    include in the use cases (only user stories?  ...or propose how they
    can get implemented to solve something?)
  - Equity contracts and fixed income
  - Trying to complete financial use cases as first milestone

- Architecture WG (Ram Jagadeesan)

- - Met yesterday -- good progress on understanding consensus module and
    smart contract business logic layer and how the two interact

  - Previously decided to use slack -- yesterday, decided to setup a
    mailing list for deeper discussions w/ appropriate contract

  - - Self-subscribe at <a
      href="https://lists.hyperledger.org/mailman/listinfo/hyperledger-arch-wg"
      class="external-link"
      rel="nofollow">https://lists.hyperledger.org/mailman/listinfo/hyperledger-arch-wg</a>

  - Would like to have use cases and requirements baked before more
    detailed discussions on architecture -- but, while we wait, decided
    to pick up more obvious topics with understanding of requirements. 
    Picked functionality and interaction consensus module and smart
    contract business logic layer.

  - 2 approaches -- one is more closely aligned with bitcoin style
    mechanisms and STL… other is fabric folks developing and
    documentation for requirements of confidential transactions (meet
    confidentiality requirements).  Trying to deteremine, can we align
    on one approach?

- <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Whitepaper-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Whitepaper WG</span></a>
  (Dave Voell)

- - Richard -- feedback sent via email to technical-discuss.

  - - Lots of unsupported assertions throughout paper, primarily about
      value of blockchain technology -- need these to be justified. 
      Stuff is not yet deployed, we don’t know for sure.
    - A lot of assumed knowledge in paper -- terms used without being
      introduced or defined.  We know that these terms are evolving in
      their interpretation. Benefit from defining terms or providing a
      glossary so that there isn’t misinterpretation.
    - Vision -- reader is left at end wondering what vision is.  Closest
      we got was vision is that lots of different blockchains need to be
      built from the same underlying architecture.  Not particularly
      inspiring and it may or may not be true. Could make argument that
      modularity is desirable based on things like Linux…. But, this is
      not entirely clear or justified.
    - Quality of prose needs to be raised -- this may come out in
      editing at end.  Just needs some general fixing.
    - Section labled requirements… but it doesn’t really have any
      requirements.  Should say “must” “should” “may”.... as opposed to
      a sales pitch.
    - Paper does not yet adequately establish vision of HLP as a whole….
      i.e. architecture onwards is mainly focused on OBC… didn’t focus
      on the high-level project with projects in incubation under that…
      also doesn’t seem to be any focus on STL.

  - DV:  Great feedback!  We’ll take all these points in consideration. 
    Requirements, for example, this is not meant to be requirements
    doc.  Just wanted to provide some examples that would be
    illustrative of features we’d like to do. Did receive other feedback
    from form that there were more examples of use cases, requirements,
    and want to have those ideas transferred over the Requirements WG. 
    Remainder of comments are really excellent.

  - Whitepaper <a
    href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z4M_qwILLRehPbVRUsJ3OF8Iir-gqS-ZYe7W-LE9gnE/pub"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Draft v0.1</span></a>
    (published May 19, 2016)

  - Please provide feedback to the Whitepaper working group through our
    <a
    href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1giX0cCgW8xQxOHDNoDsCt4-2cI_rjJL00QQ2dJOvEYg/viewform"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Feedback Form</span></a>

  - Request for everyone, especially TSC members, to read through and
    add edits prior to this draft going to the Governing Board

  - DV:  Group met yesterday.  Confirmed that strategy is to publish a
    new draft every other week.  Process is to review feedback and
    discuss, assign people to do updates (or live on call), following
    week would incorporate input and push out a new draft version.

  - Brian -- consider posting incorporated feedback to announcement
    list…. But, try to have as few channels for feedback as possible. 
    This is a foundational document -- people will be rallying around
    this. Most common watering hole is the technical-discuss list. Once
    you are ready for broader input… try to focus comments on
    technical-discuss and on google doc (add comments) so people can
    build on each others comments.

- <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Identity-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Identity WG</span></a>
  (Christopher Allen)

- - Did not meet this week (only bi-weekly).
  - Next wednesday should have IBM membership services team present a
    deeper dive into architecture and a bit about cryptography and
    confidentiality support that membership services feature of fabric
    demonstrates.  Have not yet received confirmation, but hopeful.

- CI WG (Chris Ferris)

- - Jenkins up and running -- getting it to spin out slaves onto
    alternate platforms

  - Need to do some work to integrate with slack/email

  - Gerrit is stood up… but only actively using for CI pipeline right
    now… and spinning up Jenkins jobs

  - Eventually want to transition other things as well

  - ACTION:  Todd to schedule an overview training session “immersion
    into using Gerrit” (or maybe during TSC call).

  - Please jump on CI pipeline channel on Slack.

  - Would love to see process of STL transitioned over.  Tamas -- for
    Fabric API buildout, if there is something we can do to help
    transfer over build processes to LF Jenkins, that would be great.

  - - Dan Middleton:  put a bunch of detail about our jenkins process
      into a thread with other folks on the CI process.

  

**Action Items**

- Finalize June (virtual) Hackathon (Todd)
- Finalize July Hackathon (west coast) (Todd)
- Schedule an overview training session “Immersion into using Gerrit”
  (or maybe during TSC call) (Todd)
- Exit Criteria Summary (Chris Ferris)


## Recording

* [https://youtu.be/mKXWtX_Gbso](https://youtu.be/mKXWtX_Gbso)
