---
layout: default
title: 2016 07 21 TSC Minutes
parent: 2016
grand_parent: Meeting Minutes
---
# 2016 07 21 TSC Minutes

**Hyperledger Project**

Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting

July 21, 2016 (7:00am - 8:30am PT) via GoToMeeting

**TSC Members**

<div class="table-wrap">

<table class="wrapped confluenceTable">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Emmanuel Viale</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Accenture</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Ajit Krishnamohan</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Airbus</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Stan Liberman</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>CME Group</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Tamas Blummer</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Digital Asset</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Andreas Fletcher
(proxy)</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Deutsche Boerse Group</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Pardha Vishnumolakala</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>DTCC</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Hart Montgomery</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Fujitsu</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Satoshi Oshima</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Hitachi</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Chris Ferris</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>IBM</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Mic Bowman</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Intel</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>David Voell</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>J.P. Morgan</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Richard G. Brown</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>R3</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

</div>

  

**Resources:**

- Github: 
  <a href="http://www.github.com/hyperledger" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>www.github.com/hyperledger</span></a>
- Wiki:  <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki</a>
- IRC:  \#hyperledger on
  <a href="http://freenode.net" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">freenode.net</a> (has Meetbot)
- Public lists: 
  <a href="http://lists.hyperledger.org" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">lists.hyperledger.org</a>
- Slack:  <a href="https://slack.hyperledger.org/" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://slack.hyperledger.org/</span></a>
  (self-generated invites)
- Information on the TSC Members can be found at
  <a href="https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc</span></a>
- Meetings:  <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar</a>

  

**Agenda**

- Action Item Review
- WG Updates

  

**Action Item Review**

- Hackfest preparation and updates (Todd)

- - July 26-27, San Francisco
    <a href="https://www.regonline.com/hyperledgerhackfestjuly2016"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>register</span></a> / <a
    href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qASWsEac8upcu3sVEcwM0EtdLC6JoJtJ4jwhLm1We6s/edit"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>agenda</span></a> (draft)
  - August 24-25, virtual (confirmed)
  - October 3-4, Amsterdam (tentative)

- Adjust <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1hmZY5LnZydTiYmkbtwyEYEkHEsSedlUhJbnlXGFrEP0"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>exit criteria</span></a>
  using term “active” and bring forward for approval next week (Arnaud)

- - TSC Vote:  7 yes, 2 abstain (Richard and Ajit)

  - - APPROVED

- Update <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Project-Lifecycle"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Project Lifecycle</span></a>
  and other reference documents to use term “Active” (Arnaud)

- - Arnaud:  Done. Tried to catch all of these, but there may be more. 
    The LIfecycle doc has been updated and refers to the right name, may
    need to catch a few straggling areas.

- Maturity of software discussion (Jeremy & Bill) - <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Rv4LnoN8cwxnrKu23Y_6dEoEo7o2zYgHgRYHGzyS1xU/edit?usp=sharing"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>PPT deck</span></a>

- - CF:  What does the LF Kernel do?  Anything we can learn from there? 
    Also, what does Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII) do?  We haven’t
    engaged with them yet. But, probably a good deal we can learn. 
    Lastly, once we start putting out releases that people are using,
    we’ll need to add some sort of vulnerability process in place so
    that people can privately report vulns to be explored and
    remediated.
  - RGB:  Let’s ask ourselves what is different/special about this space
    for blockchain -- this is about building shared agreements, coming
    to shared consensus.  Multiple orgs and people deploying an
    application or solution on top of this software -- what agreements
    have to be in place with those people. Also, what extent is the code
    expected to dominate.  Finally, maturity -- how are the ledgers used
    for the given use cases.
  - Ram:  This came up in Arch WG, as well.  What security reviews need
    to happen on Hyperledger implementations.  Security review by
    security research community as well as code audit. Need to be
    addressed head-on.  Not sure which forum.
  - CF:  Yes, worthwhile to take on those aspects.  re: Security, should
    also talk with Christopher Allen and Identity WG as they will have a
    lot of expertise on those topics.

- Review Hyperledger Release Taxonomy<a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u9pt-bXeOXefYBB1uYE6M-D6CtmkC1lGCjmicSlZgVA/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span> v0.2</span></a> and look
  at semver (Brian)

- - BrianB:  Please go look at
    <a href="http://semver.org" class="external-link"
    rel="nofollow">semver.org</a> if you haven’t already.
  - CF:  Still some need to have a tag to indicate how ripe something
    is, besides just a number.  A taxonomy like that is important, to
    compliment semver itself.
  - BrianB:  Will make a few amendments to this doc and we can review at
    Hackfest.

- Review “contributor” list in preparation for the TSC election (Todd)

- - Election <a
    href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/16z3lcdLjYwRkSrcq0hlXc62zi-QPAdPjvfvIy-b48jA/edit"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>timeline</span></a>

  - Contributor <a
    href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12BssA5GZipeXg1zw-0BbsuJ3OIUC-EiZF4yIP4K8GjA/edit#gid=0"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>list</span></a> (if you
    are not on this list, but should be, please email
    <a href="mailto:tbenzies@linuxfoundation.org" class="external-link"
    rel="nofollow"><span>tbenzies@linuxfoundation.org</span></a>)

  - BrianB:  Contributions to wiki -- may have been separate from WG or
    code commits

  - - CF:  I’ll explore to see who made contributions, may not be
      straightforward… can see if there is an API to use

- Revise Hyperledger Explorer proposal and bring back to the TSC next
  week for review/approval. (Chris)

- - Tabled until next week.  Pardha and Dan are reviewing proposal
    written by Chris.  WIll be brought forward next week.

  

**WG Updates**

- <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Requirements-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Requirements WG</span></a>
  (Oleg Abdrashitov)

- - Please update via email

- Architecture WG (Ram Jagadeesan)

- - Finished first work item -- only pending item is to finish
    documentation.  Functionality breakup between consensus layer and
    business logic layer -- get started at F2F next week.  Next major
    topic is security functions, outstanding item to figure out where
    security reviews should be dealt with.  Planning to have a long
    session in F2F -- 6-8 hours, putting together agenda for that and
    will send a Doodle poll.

- <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Whitepaper-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Whitepaper WG</span></a>
  (Dave Voell)

- - Good progress -- met yesterday, not enough members for quorum. 
    Quite a bit of changes since last draft, most sitting… need quorum
    to review.  There is a new glossary that has been applied. Hart has
    done a lot. New suggestions that have been reviewed and look good --
    should be ready to publish next draft… looking like we can call this
    first one 1.0 as we have addressed most, if not all, input.  Next
    week hope to have quorum to accept suggested edits.

- Identity WG (Christopher Allen)

- - Please update via email

- CI WG (Chris Ferris)

- - Jenkins up and running for x86.  For Fabric, should be able to
    transition off Travis fairly soon.  For S/390 have a little bit of
    cross-compiling issues to work through.  Hopeful to get to point
    that this is integral part of build and notifications.  For now,
    just ignoring, in terms of merges. Ongoing work to integrate
    OpenPOWER.  If interest to adding additional architectures, get in
    touch with Chris or Ry and look to integrate other archs for
    builds.  Jira and Gerrit are both up and running.

  

**Actions**

- ACTION:  Hackfest preparation and updates (Todd)
- ACTION:  Continue “maturity of software” discussion (Jeremy &\* Bill)
- ACTION:  Review Hyperledger Release Taxonomy<a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u9pt-bXeOXefYBB1uYE6M-D6CtmkC1lGCjmicSlZgVA/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span> v0.2</span></a> and look
  at semver (Brian)
- ACTION:  Pull a list of wiki contributors to add to TSC election list
  (Chris)
- ACTION:  Clean up “contributor” list in preparation for the TSC
  election (Todd)
- ACTION:  Revise Hyperledger Explorer proposal and bring back to the
  TSC next week for review/approval. (Chris)

## Recording
* [https://youtu.be/SwKm9GuwE6E](https://youtu.be/SwKm9GuwE6E]
