---
layout: default
title: 2016 10 20 TSC Minutes
parent: 2016
grand_parent: Meeting Minutes
--- 
# 2016 10 20 TSC Minutes

**Hyperledger Project**

Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting

October 20, 2016 (7:00am - 8:00am PT) via GoToMeeting

**TSC Members**



| Name                 | Present |
|--------------------------|-----|
| Arnaud Le Hors           | Yes |
| Binh Nguyen              | Yes |
| Christopher Ferris       | Yes |
| Dan Middleton            | Yes |
| Greg Haskins             | Yes |
| Hart Montgomery          | Yes |
| Mic Bowman               | Yes |
| Murali Krishna Katipalli | Yes |
| Richard Brown            | Yes |
| Sheehan Anderson         | Yes |
| Tamas Blummer            | Yes |
  

**Resources:**

- Discourse: 
  <a href="http://discuss.hyperledger.org" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">discuss.hyperledger.org</a>
- Github: 
  <a href="http://www.github.com/hyperledger" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>www.github.com/hyperledger</span></a>
- Wiki:  <a href="https://wiki.hyperledger.org/"
  rel="nofollow">https://wiki.hyperledger.org/</a>
- IRC:  \#hyperledger on
  <a href="http://freenode.net" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">freenode.net</a> (has Meetbot)
- Public lists: 
  <a href="http://lists.hyperledger.org" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">lists.hyperledger.org</a>
- Slack:  <a href="https://slack.hyperledger.org/" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://slack.hyperledger.org/</span></a>
  (self-generated invites)
- Information on the TSC Members can be found at
  <a href="https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc</span></a>
- Meetings: 
  <a href="http://wiki.hyperledger.org/community/calendar-public-meetings"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">wiki.hyperledger.org/community/calendar-public-meetings</a>

  

**Agenda**

- Action Item Review
- R3’s Corda Platform:  A technical introduction (Richard Brown)
- Incident procedure in code of conduct (Arnaud)
- Numbering scheme for HIP
- WG Updates

  

**Action Item Review**

- December Hackfest

    - We are still targeting December 5th & 6th in New York.  We will
    update once we have determined the venue and further details.

- <a href="http://wiki.hyperledger.org/" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>wiki.hyperledger.org</span></a> migration

    - WG leads or anyone else that contributed to the Github wiki, please
    continue to migrate your content over to the new wiki.

- Communication Tools - evaluating
  <a href="http://discuss.hyperledger.org/" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>discuss.hyperledger.org</span></a> (please create
  your account, if you have not already)

  

**R3’s Corda Platform:  A technical introduction (Richard Brown)**

- Announced this AM that Corda will be open sourced under Apache 2 on
  November 30th, with desire to contribute to Hyperledger for
  consideration for incubation.
- <a
  href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B42vMkapQi1MbzRQNzM1MW93Mkk/view?usp=sharing"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Corda Introduction to
  Hyperledger TSC</span></a>
- <a href="https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B42vMkapQi1MLUNsd2gzN2N3SG8"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Recording of the full
  overview and discussion</span></a>
- Please post all questions and comments to
  <a href="mailto:hyperledger-tsc@lists.hyperledger.org"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">hyperledger-tsc@lists.hyperledger.org</a>

  

**Numbering scheme for HIP (Vipin)**

- <a href="http://wiki.hyperledger.org/community/proposals"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">wiki.hyperledger.org/community/proposals</a>

- It says that every project that it is incubated or considered would
  have a number assigned to it, much like numbers assigned to BIP or EIP
  where there are large numbers of proposals or projects incubated.

- Somebody needs to assign these numbers, then we can have a better
  catalog of what is going on, easier to navigate and find, at least on
  top-level.

- CF:  trying to have all proposals added to wiki… then update to
  indicate status (reviewed, approved, etc.) and linking to meeting
  minutes.

    - Vipin:  Number is in template, this is not a new thing.
    - CF:  Right, maintaining editorial oversight.
    - Arnaud:  Understand numbering scheme to force organization… but, it
    is just another piece of info that you have to keep track of.  Can
    we better organize on wiki instead of doing numbering?
    - Vipin:  just following good practices that we’ve seen on other
    projects.  Path towards a process.
    - Jared:  supportive of this, we seem to be saying the same thing. 
    There are a list of proposals, this is just bookkeeping. This makes
    it unique and unambiguous.

  

**Incident procedure in code of conduct (Arnaud)**

- <a
  href="https://wiki.hyperledger.org/community/hyperledger-project-code-of-conduct"
  rel="nofollow">https://wiki.hyperledger.org/community/hyperledger-project-code-of-conduct</a>

- LF is advocating reuse of our Code of Conduct in other LF projects to
  have one standard CoC across LF projects. One project raised concern
  over the Incident procedure that I think is worth discussing. The
  issue has to do with the use of a mailing list to report abuse. The
  point (I think rightly) was made that this could discourage reporting
  and that it would be better to point to specific people instead.

    - For additional background you can [check the issue that was raised in
    the CNCF project](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/issues/2#issuecomment-249247581)

- Mike Dolan:  For most of other code of conducts, we do identify
  specific individuals, as they understand how to handle anything that
  arises (and it is transparent who someone is connecting with).

    - Discussion ensued leading to the outcome that Arnaud will work with
    Mike Dolan to identify 1-2 individuals to get listed in the
    Hyperledger code of conduct.

  

**WG Updates**

\[please send over via email\]

- <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Requirements-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Requirements WG</span></a>
  (Oleg Abdrashitov)
- <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Architecture-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Architecture WG</span></a>
  (Ram Jagadeesan)
- <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Whitepaper-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Whitepaper WG</span></a>
  (Dave Voell)
- [Identity WG](https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar#hyperledger-identity-wg-biweekly-meeting)
  (Christopher Allen)
- Collaborative Tools WG (Chris Ferris)
- Fabric SDK Projects (Java, Node.js, and Python)

  

**Actions**

- December Hackfest preparation
- Communication Tools (Brian/Todd)
- Incident procedure in code of conduct -- Arnaud to work with Mike
  Dolan to identify the appropriate people to get listed in the code of
  conduct (Arnaud)

## Attachments
 * [Introduction to Corda](https://github.com/hyperledger/toc-docs/blob/main/2016/10/20/2016%2B10%2B20%2BTSC%2BMeeting-attachment-Corda%2BIntroduction%2Bto%2BHyperledger%2BTechnical%2BSteering%2BCommittee%2BFINAL.pdf)

## Recording
 * [https://youtu.be/v_76cBVmoZ4](https://youtu.be/v_76cBVmoZ4)
