---
layout: default
title: 2016 08 11 TSC Minutes
parent: 2016
grand_parent: Meeting Minutes
---
# 2016 08 11 TSC Minutes

**Hyperledger Project**

Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting

August 11, 2016 (7:00am - 8:30am PT) via GoToMeeting

**TSC Members**

<div class="table-wrap">

<table class="confluenceTable">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Emmanuel Viale</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Accenture</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Ajit Krishnamohan</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Airbus</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Stan Liberman</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>CME Group</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Tamas Blummer</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Digital Asset</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Stefan Teis</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Deutsche Boerse Group</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Pardha Vishnumolakala</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>DTCC</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Hart Montgomery</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Fujitsu</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Satoshi Oshima</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Hitachi</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Chris Ferris</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>IBM</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Mic Bowman</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Intel</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>David Voell</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>J.P. Morgan</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Richard G. Brown</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>R3</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Charles Cai</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Wanda</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

</div>

  

**Resources:**

- Github: 
  <a href="http://www.github.com/hyperledger" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>www.github.com/hyperledger</span></a>
- Wiki:  <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki</a>
- IRC:  \#hyperledger on
  <a href="http://freenode.net" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">freenode.net</a> (has Meetbot)
- Public lists: 
  <a href="http://lists.hyperledger.org" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">lists.hyperledger.org</a>
- Slack:  <a href="https://slack.hyperledger.org/" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://slack.hyperledger.org/</span></a>
  (self-generated invites)
- Information on the TSC Members can be found at
  <a href="https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc</span></a>
- Meetings:  <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar</a>

  

**Agenda**

- Action Item Review
- TSC steady state election
- Hyperledger Explorer <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/11VfetBwc-AhFwihJU9cT37lShkkAVkUCvb8RCnS85Fw/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>proposal</span></a>
  (Pardha, Dan, Chris)
- Hyperledger-py <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N-KbwlFb7Oo_pTG2NjjLTqwlhqp_kjyv5fco7VH8WrE/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>proposal</span></a> (Baohua
  Yang)
- WG Updates

**     **

**Action Item Review**

- Hackfest preparation and updates (Todd)

- - August 24-25, virtual (confirmed)

  - - <a
      href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-YQzap_OvH98_QVoKcfyQ2QlnYT6iAfL7cw_o-xw9FQ/edit"
      class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Agenda</span></a>
      planning

  - October 3-4, Amsterdam (confirmed - details coming soon)

- Review Hyperledger Release Taxonomy <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u9pt-bXeOXefYBB1uYE6M-D6CtmkC1lGCjmicSlZgVA/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>v0.2</span></a> and add
  semver versioning numbers (Brian)

- - Chris and Brian to work on this for next week.

  
  

**TSC Steady State Election**

- Election <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/16z3lcdLjYwRkSrcq0hlXc62zi-QPAdPjvfvIy-b48jA/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>timeline</span></a>
- Contributor <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12BssA5GZipeXg1zw-0BbsuJ3OIUC-EiZF4yIP4K8GjA/edit#gid=0"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>list</span></a>
- There were no objections from the TSC to start the nomination phase
  directly after the TSC call, follow the referenced timeline, and use
  the referenced list of those eligible.

  

**Hyperledger Explorer** <a
href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/11VfetBwc-AhFwihJU9cT37lShkkAVkUCvb8RCnS85Fw/edit"
class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><strong>proposal</strong></a>
**(Pardha, Dan, Chris)**

- Discussion

- - CF:  This is valuable to both Fabric and STL -- helps bring more
    collaboration.
  - Mic:  Is intention to focus on interface (UI) or is there an
    intention to use this to start standardizing external APIs?
  - CF:  A little bit of both.

- **VOTE: ** passed unanimously.

  

**Hyperledger-py** <a
href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N-KbwlFb7Oo_pTG2NjjLTqwlhqp_kjyv5fco7VH8WrE/edit"
class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><strong>proposal</strong></a>
**(Baohua Yang)**

- Discussion

- - CF:  Suggest support for GRPC instead of REST, also have a
    consistency between Node and Python SDKs.
  - Request for the technical community and TSC to review and comment on
    this proposal.

  
  

**WG Updates**

- <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Requirements-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Requirements WG</span></a>
  (Oleg Abdrashitov)

- - Continue working on use cases -- global KYC database, also e-voting.
  - Finished certification use case.
  - Last call, asked group to start dividing responsibility to finish
    the main requirements doc.
  - Also discuss building of PoCs -- call to broader audience for any
    use cases that can easily be turned into demos.
  - CF:  at F2F, had meeting to talk about demos.  For Hyperledger, the
    thinking for booth would be more a video, as opposed to live demo.

- <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Architecture-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Architecture WG</span></a>
  (Ram Jagadeesan)

- - Starting separate Architecture doc -- will be meeting shortly today.

- <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Whitepaper-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Whitepaper WG</span></a>
  (Dave Voell)

- - Met yesterday, <a
    href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z4M_qwILLRehPbVRUsJ3OF8Iir-gqS-ZYe7W-LE9gnE/pub"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Draft v2.0.0</span></a>
    available.  No new feedback to review.  Working on expanding the
    glossary.
  - Want to make sure everyone in TSC has had a chance to review this
    before we share it with the GB.
  - CF:  Let’s schedule a walk-through of this during the virtual
    Hackfest.

- <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar#hyperledger-identity-wg-biweekly-meeting"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Identity WG</span></a>
  (Christopher Allen)

- - Update coming via email

- CI WG (Chris Ferris)

- - Gerrit transition is pretty much complete.  Greg’s Fabric chaintool
    still needs to be migrated.
  - Dan M:  For STL, no Gerrit changes as of yet.  Looking at doing some
    repo consolidation, should make CI work more manageable.  Currently
    some interdependencies between repos.
  - Discussing doing a cold restart in Jira.  Those that have issues
    should copy them manually over to Jira.
  - One remaining piece is wiki.  One thought was to use mediawiki or
    Confluence.  Another option would be to leverage markdown.

  

**Actions**

- ACTION:  Hackfest preparation and updates (Todd)
- ACTION:  Review Hyperledger Release Taxonomy <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u9pt-bXeOXefYBB1uYE6M-D6CtmkC1lGCjmicSlZgVA/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>v0.2</span></a> and add
  semver versioning numbers (Brian and Chris)
- ACTION:  Start TSC election (Todd)
- ACTION:  Review and comment on Hyperledger-py <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1N-KbwlFb7Oo_pTG2NjjLTqwlhqp_kjyv5fco7VH8WrE/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>proposal</span></a> (Baohua
  Yang)
- ACTION:  Schedule Whitepaper WG walkthrough during virtual Hackfest
  (Todd)

## Recording

* [https://youtu.be/B4vyQCiRSvQ](https://youtu.be/B4vyQCiRSvQ)
