--- 
layout: default
title: 2016 08 04 TSC Minutes
parent: 2016
grand_parent: Meeting Minutes
--- 
# 2016 08 04 TSC Minutes

**Hyperledger Project**

Technical Steering Committee (TSC) Meeting

August 4, 2016 (7:00am - 8:30am PT) via GoToMeeting

**TSC Members**

<div class="table-wrap">

<table class="wrapped confluenceTable">
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Emmanuel Viale</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Accenture</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Ajit Krishnamohan</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Airbus</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Stan Liberman</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>CME Group</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Tamas Blummer</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Digital Asset</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Stefan Teis</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Deutsche Boerse Group</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Pardha Vishnumolakala</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>DTCC</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Hart Montgomery</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Fujitsu</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Satoshi Oshima</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Hitachi</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Chris Ferris</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>IBM</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Mic Bowman</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Intel</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>David Voell</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>J.P. Morgan</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Richard G. Brown</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>R3</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Yes</span></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Charles Cai</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><p><span>Wanda</span></p></td>
<td class="confluenceTd"><br />
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

</div>

  

**Resources:**

- Github: 
  <a href="http://www.github.com/hyperledger" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>www.github.com/hyperledger</span></a>
- Wiki:  <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki</a>
- IRC:  \#hyperledger on
  <a href="http://freenode.net" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">freenode.net</a> (has Meetbot)
- Public lists: 
  <a href="http://lists.hyperledger.org" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">lists.hyperledger.org</a>
- Slack:  <a href="https://slack.hyperledger.org/" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://slack.hyperledger.org/</span></a>
  (self-generated invites)
- Information on the TSC Members can be found at
  <a href="https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow"><span>https://www.hyperledger.org/about/tsc</span></a>
- Meetings:  <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar"
  class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar</a>

  

**Agenda**

- Action Item Review
- Follow-up on Gerrit migration
- WG Updates

  

**Action Item Review**

- Hackfest preparation and updates (Todd)

- - Readout from SF Hackfest (Brian and other attendees)

  - - <a
      href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qASWsEac8upcu3sVEcwM0EtdLC6JoJtJ4jwhLm1We6s/edit"
      class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Overview</span></a> of
      activities

  - August 24-25, virtual (confirmed)

  - - Limited participation last time -- teeing up specific action items
      would be beneficial
    - Will create Google doc for agenda to iterate on over the coming
      weeks

  - October 3-4, Amsterdam (confirmed - details coming soon)

- Maturity of software discussion (Jeremy & Bill) - <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Rv4LnoN8cwxnrKu23Y_6dEoEo7o2zYgHgRYHGzyS1xU/edit?usp=sharing"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>PPT deck</span></a>

- - Jeremy:  Since we last met, presented to Requirements WG and got
    favorable response.  Got agreement to incorporate into use cases
    template. Bill and I walked through a spreadsheet of risks and
    mitigations.  Important to enterprise development. Incorporated a
    part of discussion from Identity WG (prioritize features for
    membership services).
  - Next steps:  Start to develop database some more.  Start to update
    use case template as well to incorporate risk assessment
    methodology.
  - Brian:  We did talk about this deck at the Hackfest and many found
    it useful to walk through what we want to be thinking about when
    getting ready for 1.0 release.

- Review Hyperledger Release Taxonomy <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u9pt-bXeOXefYBB1uYE6M-D6CtmkC1lGCjmicSlZgVA/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>v0.2</span></a> and look at
  semver (Brian)

- - semver versioning \#s have not yet been integrated -- will revisit
    next week.

- TSC election (Todd)

- - Election <a
    href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/16z3lcdLjYwRkSrcq0hlXc62zi-QPAdPjvfvIy-b48jA/edit"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>timeline</span></a>
  - Contributor <a
    href="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12BssA5GZipeXg1zw-0BbsuJ3OIUC-EiZF4yIP4K8GjA/edit#gid=0"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>list</span></a> (if you
    are not on this list, but should be, please email
    <a href="mailto:tbenzies@linuxfoundation.org" class="external-link"
    rel="nofollow"><span>tbenzies@linuxfoundation.org</span></a>)

- Revise Hyperledger Explorer proposal and bring back to the TSC next
  week for review/approval. (Chris)

- - Pardha:  made some updates, will circle back with Dan/Chris and then
    post to wiki for discussion next week.
  - Brian:  At the Hackfest last week, there is a path forward to build
    on top of initial contribution to be able to talk to both Fabric and
    STL.

  

**Follow-up on Gerrit migration**

- Brian:  There are some outstanding migration questions.  We’ve moved
  where repo sits, the core upstream repo is now on
  <a href="http://gerrit.hyperledger.org" class="external-link"
  rel="nofollow">gerrit.hyperledger.org</a>.  One aspect to determine
  is:

- - leverage the mirror of the fabric (and other) repos to GH and let
    nature take its course
  - leverage the ability to establish a non-GH identity for our project
    leveraging the \<meta\> tage configuration supported by Go.
  - Discussion ensued leading to the outcome that the technical
    community will continue to further iterate on this topic over the
    mailing list.
  - Arnaud reminded the TSC of the
    <a href="https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B42vMkapQi1MSzRjYlhfSkFRSzA"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Immersion into
    Gerrit</span></a> training done by Ry Jones.

  

**WG Updates**

- <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Requirements-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Requirements WG</span></a>
  (Oleg Abdrashitov)

- - Jeremy Sevareid and Bill Sparks are working on Risk Assessment and
    Controls document
  - Oleg Abdrashitov working on Certification and Global KYC Database
    use cases
  - Ajit Krishnamohan of Airbus working on the requirements for the
    Supply Chain use case

- <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Architecture-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Architecture WG</span></a>
  (Ram Jagadeesan)

- - Held F2F at SF Hackfest

  - - 1st session on documentation around consensus layer and smart
      contract layer (and interface between them).
    - 2nd session on security and privacy requirements

- <a href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/Whitepaper-WG"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Whitepaper WG</span></a>
  (Dave Voell)

- - Met yesterday, reviewed final updates for next publication (no new
    feedback for ~3 weeks)
  - <a
    href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z4M_qwILLRehPbVRUsJ3OF8Iir-gqS-ZYe7W-LE9gnE/pub"
    class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Draft v2.0.0</span></a>
    (published August 3, 2016) -- please review

- <a
  href="https://github.com/hyperledger/hyperledger/wiki/PublicMeetingCalendar#hyperledger-identity-wg-biweekly-meeting"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>Identity WG</span></a>
  (Christopher Allen)

- - Update via email

- CI WG (Chris Ferris)

- - Update via email

  

**Actions**

- ACTION:  Hackfest preparation and updates (Todd)
- ACTION:  Review Hyperledger Release Taxonomy <a
  href="https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u9pt-bXeOXefYBB1uYE6M-D6CtmkC1lGCjmicSlZgVA/edit"
  class="external-link" rel="nofollow"><span>v0.2</span></a> and add
  semver versioning numbers (Brian)
- ACTION:  Pull a list of wiki contributors to add to TSC election list
  (Chris)
- ACTION:  Clean up “contributor” list in preparation for the TSC
  election (Todd)
- ACTION:  Revise Hyperledger Explorer proposal and bring back to the
  TSC next week for review/approval (Pardha)

## Recording

* [https://youtu.be/DNFnXpg5aag](https://youtu.be/DNFnXpg5aag)
